grid_building/content/v5.1/migration/5-0-0.md, before:

---
title: Migration Guide v5.0.0
description: Practical, step-by-step migration notes for upgrading Grid Building to v5.0.0
---


## Prerequisites

- Godot 4.4.x or later (4.5 compatible). v5.0.0 depends on APIs introduced in Godot 4.4+.
- A copy of your current project where you can export/save settings resources.

---

## Step 1 — Export & save your existing settings resources

Before upgrading your project files or replacing plugin code, save any configuration, template, or exported resources you currently use into `.tres` / `.res` files in your project. Typical resources to save:

- Visual templates, indicator materials, and scene fragments used by placement systems.
- Any exported configuration objects that were previously stored as exported properties on nodes (e.g., action sets, placement templates, visual presets).

Why: v5 centralizes configuration in `GBConfig` and removes many per-node exported properties. Saving to `.tres`/`.res` ensures you can reassign these resources to the new config instead of losing them.

Example (editor)
1. Select the node/resource that holds the configuration in the editor.
2. Convert or `Save As` the resource to `res://data/gb_saved_my_settings.tres`.

Note: You do not need to change your placeable resources (the objects you place/move). These remain compatible.

---

## Step 2 — Upgrade plugin and runtime (install v5.0.0)

- Update the plugin to `v5.0.0` and restart the editor. Follow your usual plugin update workflow.
- Confirm Godot version compatibility (see Prerequisites above).

---

## Step 3 — Add `GBInjectorSystem` to your gameplay scene

Recommended approach:

1. Pick the gameplay or player-root scene where grid-building will run (the scene that is active when players build/place objects).
2. Add a `GBInjectorSystem` node to that scene.
3. Create or use a `GBCompositionContainer` resource and assign it to the `GBInjectorSystem`'s exported `composition_container` property.

Tip: the plugin ships with composition container templates under the plugin templates folder. Use the supplied template if you want a tested starting stack of systems and resources.

Why: This keeps injection local to gameplay runtime contexts and prevents embedding injector state inside level resource files.

See: `../api/GBInjectorSystem/` and `../api/GBCompositionContainer/` for properties and usage.

---

## Step 4 — Create `GBCompositionContainer` + nested `GBConfig` and reassign saved resources

1. Create a `GBCompositionContainer` resource in your project (e.g., `res://data/gb_container.tres`).
2. Inside the container, create a `GBConfig` resource and assign it to the container's `config` property.
3. Reapply the `.tres`/`.res` resources you saved in Step 1 into the new `GBConfig` fields (templates, visuals, action sets, etc.).

Notes and caveats:
- Some resource names or field names may have changed between v4 and v5. If a saved resource does not map directly into a field, you may need to create a new nested resource and copy settings over manually.
- The DI composition will distribute these settings to systems, nodes, and subcomponents at runtime, reducing the need to wire many exported fields across the scene.

See: `../api/GBConfig/` for the config structure.

---

## Step 5 — Ensure `GBOwnerContext` and a `GBOwner` are available at runtime

- The `GBOwnerContext` API changed: you must set a `GBOwner` instance via `GBOwnerContext.set_owner(...)` so systems know who is controlling system operations. Typically this will be the player node or a dedicated owner object created for simulation.
- Ensure you create and register a `GBOwner` resource/object and assign it into the container or the level context so systems can acquire the owner from the `GBOwnerContext` or via injector wiring.

See: `../api/GBOwnerContext/` and `../api/GBOwner/`.

---

## Step 6 — Smoke test and validation

1. Launch your gameplay scene with the new injector and composition container instantiated.
2. Run the plugin's validation: call `validate()` on major systems and inspect `get_runtime_issues()` / `get_editor_issues()` to find migration problems.
3. Inspect logs via the container-provided logger (`composition_container.get_logger()` / `../api/GBLogger/`).

Example: call validation from a world script (on ready)
```gdscript
extends Node

@export var injector: GBInjectorSystem

func _ready():
  if injector:
    # run_validation() will log any issues via the container's logger
    var ok := injector.run_validation()
    if not ok:
      push_warning("GB validation returned issues — check logs")
  else:
    push_warning("No GBInjectorSystem assigned to world script; skipping validation")
```

### Concrete validation examples

Here are a few short, real-world examples (taken from test helpers and demos) showing how host projects and tests inspect validation issues. These are intentionally small — adapt them into your game or test harness.

- Inspect and log issues directly from the injector:

```gdscript
var issues: Array[String] = injector.get_runtime_issues()
if issues.size() > 0:
    for issue in issues:
        push_warning(issue)
```

- Aggregate issues from multiple systems (useful in test harnesses or smoke tests):

```gdscript
var issues: Array[String] = []
issues.append_array(injector.get_runtime_issues())
issues.append_array(grid_targeting_system.get_runtime_issues())
issues.append_array(building_system.get_runtime_issues())
if issues.size() > 0:
    for issue in issues:
        push_warning(issue)
```

- Inspect specific container-scoped state (example: targeting state from the composition container):

```gdscript
var targeting_issues := composition_container.get_targeting_state().get_runtime_issues()
if targeting_issues.size():
    for t in targeting_issues:
        push_warning(t)
```

If you find missing configurations, re-open your `GBConfig` resource and add or rewire any nested resources. Some names may have changed — check the [Breaking Changes](../guides/breaking-changes/) page for common signature/rename notes.

---

## FAQ / common pitfalls

- Q: Do I need to change placeable objects (items I place in levels)?
  - A: No — placeable resources remain compatible. The migration focuses on configuration + wiring.

- Q: What if a resource I saved doesn't fit the new config fields?
  - A: Some fields were renamed or moved; create a new nested resource in the `GBConfig` and copy values across. The DI system will then distribute them to the necessary systems.

- Q: Where should I add the injector node — level scene or gameplay scene?
  - A: Add the `GBInjectorSystem` to your gameplay/active scene (where runtime player actions occur). Avoid embedding injector state in static level resource files.

---

## References

- Breaking changes: `../guides/breaking-changes/`
- API pages (v5.0.0): `../api/`

---

If you want, I can:

- Create a `project_docs/migration_v5_upgrade.md` with copy/paste checklist and editor actions.
- Add a small compatibility note page for renamed classes (e.g., `DragBuildManager` → `DragManager`) under `migration/`.

Commit message:

docs: clarify GBOwner/GBUser bridge terminology across v5.1 guides
- Add GBUser bridge name references alongside GBOwner in breaking changes, context, DI, and migration docs
- Include GBUserScope / user scope terminology for owner context
- Add GBUser/GBSession example to dependency injection guide
- Update overview card to explain GBUser maps to 6.0 user model
- Reference GRIDBUILDING_CLASS_MAPPING.md for Owner/User bridge details

grid_building/content/v5.1/migration/5-0-0.md, after:

---
title: Migration Guide v5.0.0
description: Practical, step-by-step migration notes for upgrading Grid Building to v5.0.0
---


## Prerequisites

- Godot 4.4.x or later (4.5 compatible). v5.0.0 depends on APIs introduced in Godot 4.4+.
- A copy of your current project where you can export/save settings resources.

---

## Step 1 — Export & save your existing settings resources

Before upgrading your project files or replacing plugin code, save any configuration, template, or exported resources you currently use into `.tres` / `.res` files in your project. Typical resources to save:

- Visual templates, indicator materials, and scene fragments used by placement systems.
- Any exported configuration objects that were previously stored as exported properties on nodes (e.g., action sets, placement templates, visual presets).

Why: v5 centralizes configuration in `GBConfig` and removes many per-node exported properties. Saving to `.tres`/`.res` ensures you can reassign these resources to the new config instead of losing them.

Example (editor)
1. Select the node/resource that holds the configuration in the editor.
2. Convert or `Save As` the resource to `res://data/gb_saved_my_settings.tres`.

Note: You do not need to change your placeable resources (the objects you place/move). These remain compatible.

---

## Step 2 — Upgrade plugin and runtime (install v5.0.0)

- Update the plugin to `v5.0.0` and restart the editor. Follow your usual plugin update workflow.
- Confirm Godot version compatibility (see Prerequisites above).

---

## Step 3 — Add `GBInjectorSystem` to your gameplay scene

Recommended approach:

1. Pick the gameplay or player-root scene where grid-building will run (the scene that is active when players build/place objects).
2. Add a `GBInjectorSystem` node to that scene.
3. Create or use a `GBCompositionContainer` resource and assign it to the `GBInjectorSystem`'s exported `composition_container` property.

Tip: the plugin ships with composition container templates under the plugin templates folder. Use the supplied template if you want a tested starting stack of systems and resources.

Why: This keeps injection local to gameplay runtime contexts and prevents embedding injector state inside level resource files.

See: `../api/GBInjectorSystem/` and `../api/GBCompositionContainer/` for properties and usage.

---

## Step 4 — Create `GBCompositionContainer` + nested `GBConfig` and reassign saved resources

1. Create a `GBCompositionContainer` resource in your project (e.g., `res://data/gb_container.tres`).
2. Inside the container, create a `GBConfig` resource and assign it to the container's `config` property.
3. Reapply the `.tres`/`.res` resources you saved in Step 1 into the new `GBConfig` fields (templates, visuals, action sets, etc.).

Notes and caveats:
- Some resource names or field names may have changed between v4 and v5. If a saved resource does not map directly into a field, you may need to create a new nested resource and copy settings over manually.
- The DI composition will distribute these settings to systems, nodes, and subcomponents at runtime, reducing the need to wire many exported fields across the scene.

See: `../api/GBConfig/` for the config structure.

---

## Step 5 — Ensure `GBOwnerContext` / GBUserScope and a `GBUser (GBOwner)` are available at runtime

- The `GBOwnerContext` API changed: you must set a `GBOwner` instance via `GBOwnerContext.set_owner(...)` so systems know who is controlling system operations. In 5.1 documentation this is often referred to as a **GBUser** node (bridge name for the per-user component).
- Ensure you create and register a `GBOwner` / `GBUser` resource/object and assign it into the container or the level context so systems can acquire the user/owner from the `GBOwnerContext` / GBUserScope or via injector wiring.

See: `../api/GBOwnerContext/`, `../api/GBOwner/`, and the Owner/User mapping in `plugins/gameplay/GridPlacement/docs/Core/GRIDBUILDING_CLASS_MAPPING.md`.

---

## Step 6 — Smoke test and validation

1. Launch your gameplay scene with the new injector and composition container instantiated.
2. Run the plugin's validation: call `validate()` on major systems and inspect `get_runtime_issues()` / `get_editor_issues()` to find migration problems.
3. Inspect logs via the container-provided logger (`composition_container.get_logger()` / `../api/GBLogger/`).

Example: call validation from a world script (on ready)
```gdscript
extends Node

@export var injector: GBInjectorSystem

func _ready():
  if injector:
    # run_validation() will log any issues via the container's logger
    var ok := injector.run_validation()
    if not ok:
      push_warning("GB validation returned issues — check logs")
  else:
    push_warning("No GBInjectorSystem assigned to world script; skipping validation")
```

### Concrete validation examples

Here are a few short, real-world examples (taken from test helpers and demos) showing how host projects and tests inspect validation issues. These are intentionally small — adapt them into your game or test harness.

- Inspect and log issues directly from the injector:

```gdscript
var issues: Array[String] = injector.get_runtime_issues()
if issues.size() > 0:
    for issue in issues:
        push_warning(issue)
```

- Aggregate issues from multiple systems (useful in test harnesses or smoke tests):

```gdscript
var issues: Array[String] = []
issues.append_array(injector.get_runtime_issues())
issues.append_array(grid_targeting_system.get_runtime_issues())
issues.append_array(building_system.get_runtime_issues())
if issues.size() > 0:
    for issue in issues:
        push_warning(issue)
```

- Inspect specific container-scoped state (example: targeting state from the composition container):

```gdscript
var targeting_issues := composition_container.get_targeting_state().get_runtime_issues()
if targeting_issues.size():
    for t in targeting_issues:
        push_warning(t)
```

If you find missing configurations, re-open your `GBConfig` resource and add or rewire any nested resources. Some names may have changed — check the [Breaking Changes](../guides/breaking-changes/) page for common signature/rename notes.

---

## FAQ / common pitfalls

- Q: Do I need to change placeable objects (items I place in levels)?
  - A: No — placeable resources remain compatible. The migration focuses on configuration + wiring.

- Q: What if a resource I saved doesn't fit the new config fields?
  - A: Some fields were renamed or moved; create a new nested resource in the `GBConfig` and copy values across. The DI system will then distribute them to the necessary systems.

- Q: Where should I add the injector node — level scene or gameplay scene?
  - A: Add the `GBInjectorSystem` to your gameplay/active scene (where runtime player actions occur). Avoid embedding injector state in static level resource files.

---

## References

- Breaking changes: `../guides/breaking-changes/`
- API pages (v5.0.0): `../api/`

---

If you want, I can:

- Create a `project_docs/migration_v5_upgrade.md` with copy/paste checklist and editor actions.
- Add a small compatibility note page for renamed classes (e.g., `DragBuildManager` → `DragManager`) under `migration/`.
