grid_building/content/v5.1/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Grid Building Plugin v5.1.0"
description: "Development version with latest features and improvements"
---


# Grid Building Plugin v5.1.0 (Development)

{{< version-notice status="development" version="5.1.0" text="This is the development version. Features may change before final release." >}}

Welcome to the **Grid Building Plugin v5.1.0** development documentation. This version contains the latest features and improvements that are currently in active development.

{{< version-requirements minVersion="4.4" recommended="4.5" pluginVersion="5.1.0-dev" note="v5.1.0 is under development and may contain breaking changes" >}}

## 🚀 What's Coming in v5.1.0

### ✨ **New Features in Development**

#### **Enhanced Performance System**
- **GPU-Accelerated Grid Operations** - Leverage compute shaders for massive grids
- **Async Building Operations** - Non-blocking building placement
- **Memory Pool Management** - Advanced memory optimization
- **Spatial Indexing** - Quadtree-based spatial queries

#### **Advanced Building System**
- **Multi-Story Buildings** - Support for vertical building
- **Building Templates** - Reusable building configurations
- **Dynamic Building Systems** - Runtime building generation
- **Building Dependencies** - Buildings that depend on other buildings

#### **Improved User Experience**
- **Visual Building Editor** - In-game building designer
- **Building Preview System** - Real-time placement preview
- **Undo/Redo System** - Complete action history
- **Building Snap System** - Smart grid snapping

#### **Enhanced API**
- **Fluent API Design** - Method chaining and builder patterns
- **Event System** - Reactive programming support
- **Plugin Architecture** - Extensible plugin system
- **Scriptable Building Types** - Custom building type definitions

### 🔄 **Planned Breaking Changes**

| Change | Status | Impact |
|--------|--------|--------|
| **GPU Acceleration API** | In Development | High |
| **Event System Integration** | Planned | Medium |
| **Plugin Architecture** | In Development | Medium |
| **Multi-Story Support** | Planned | Low |

---

## 🎯 Development Roadmap

### **Phase 1: Performance Enhancements** ✅ Complete
- [x] GPU acceleration framework
- [x] Async operation system
- [x] Memory pool management
- [x] Spatial indexing improvements

### **Phase 2: Advanced Building Features** 🚧 In Progress
- [ ] Multi-story building system
- [ ] Building template system
- [ ] Dynamic building generation
- [ ] Building dependency management

### **Phase 3: User Experience** 📋 Planned
- [ ] Visual building editor
- [ ] Building preview system
- [ ] Undo/redo implementation
- [ ] Smart snapping system

### **Phase 4: API Improvements** 📋 Planned
- [ ] Fluent API design
- [ ] Event system integration
- [ ] Plugin architecture
- [ ] Scriptable building types

---

## 📊 Performance Benchmarks (Development)

### **Current Development Performance**

| Operation | v5.0 Performance | v5.1-dev Performance | Improvement |
|-----------|------------------|---------------------|-------------|
| **Grid Creation** | 18ms | 8ms | **55% faster** [internal benchmarks] |
| **Tile Selection** | 5ms | 2ms | **60% faster** [internal benchmarks] |
| **Building Placement** | 3ms | 1ms | **67% faster** [internal benchmarks] |
| **Large Grid (1000x1000)** | 450ms | 120ms | **73% faster** [internal benchmarks] |
| **Memory Usage** | 28MB | 18MB | **36% reduction** |

*Performance improvements based on internal benchmarks. Actual results may vary by use case.*

### **GPU Acceleration Results**

| Grid Size | CPU Time | GPU Time | Speedup |
|-----------|----------|----------|---------|
| **500x500** | 120ms | 15ms | **8x faster** [GPU benchmarks] |
| **1000x1000** | 450ms | 35ms | **13x faster** [GPU benchmarks] |
| **2000x2000** | 1800ms | 80ms | **22x faster** [GPU benchmarks] |

*GPU acceleration results from internal testing with specific hardware configurations.*

---

## 🔧 New API Examples

### **Fluent API Design**
```gdscript
# v5.1 fluent API
var result = building_system
    .with_config(grid_config)
    .with_position(Vector2i(50, 50))
    .with_size(Vector2i(2, 2))
    .with_type(BuildType.DRAG)
    .with_validation_rules([no_overlap_rule, terrain_rule])
    .place_building()

if result.success:
    var building = result.building
    building
        .with_material("stone")
        .with_color(Color.BLUE)
        .with_health(100)
        .apply()
```

### **Event System**
```gdscript
# v5.1 event system
building_system.building_placed.connect(func(data: GBBuildingData):
    print("Building placed at: ", data.position)
    update_ui()

building_system.building_removed.connect(func(data: GBBuildingData):
    print("Building removed from: ", data.position)
    update_ui()
)
```

### **GPU Acceleration**
```gdscript
# v5.1 GPU acceleration
var gpu_processor = GPUGridProcessor.new()
gpu_processor.enable_acceleration(true)

# Process large grid on GPU
var results = await gpu_processor.find_valid_tiles(
    grid_data, 
    building_template, 
    area_bounds
)
```

### **Multi-Story Buildings**
```gdscript
# v5.1 multi-story support
var multi_story = MultiStoryBuilding.new()
multi_story
    .add_floor(0, floor_plan_1)
    .add_floor(1, floor_plan_2)
    .add_floor(2, floor_plan_3)
    .with_stairs(stair_positions)
    .place_at(Vector3i(50, 0, 50))
```

---

## 🧪 Testing the Development Version

### **Installation Instructions**

1. **Download Development Version**
   ```bash
   # Clone development branch
   git clone -b develop https://github.com/ChrisTutorials/grid_building_dev.git
   ```

2. **Install in Godot**
   - Copy to your project's `addons/` directory
   - Enable in Project Settings

3. **Configure for Development**
   ```gdscript
   # Enable development features
   @export var config: GBConfig = GBConfig.new()
   config.enable_gpu_acceleration = true
   config.enable_async_operations = true
   config.enable_development_features = true
   ```

### **Testing New Features**

#### **GPU Acceleration Test**
```gdscript
func test_gpu_acceleration():
    var gpu_processor = GPUGridProcessor.new()
    
    # Test with large grid
    var grid_size = Vector2i(1000, 1000)
    var test_data = generate_test_grid(grid_size)
    
    # CPU vs GPU comparison
    var cpu_time = Time.get_ticks_msec()
    var cpu_result = cpu_processor.process_grid(test_data)
    cpu_time = Time.get_ticks_msec() - cpu_time
    
    var gpu_time = Time.get_ticks_msec()
    var gpu_result = await gpu_processor.process_grid_gpu(test_data)
    gpu_time = Time.get_ticks_msec() - gpu_time
    
    print("CPU: ", cpu_time, "ms, GPU: ", gpu_time, "ms")
    print("Speedup: ", float(cpu_time) / float(gpu_time), "x")
```

#### **Event System Test**
```gdscript
func test_event_system():
    var event_count = 0
    
    building_system.building_placed.connect(func(data):
        event_count += 1
        print("Event ", event_count, ": Building at ", data.position)
    
    # Place buildings and count events
    for i in range(10):
        place_test_building(Vector2i(i, i))
    
    assert(event_count == 10, "Should receive 10 events")
```

---

## 🐛 Known Issues & Limitations

### **Current Development Issues**

#### **GPU Acceleration**
- ⚠️ **Limited Platform Support** - Currently only supports desktop platforms
- ⚠️ **Memory Constraints** - Very large grids may exceed GPU memory
- ⚠️ **Shader Compilation** - Initial shader compilation may cause lag

#### **Multi-Story Buildings**
- ⚠️ **Collision Detection** - Multi-story collision detection in development
- ⚠️ **Pathfinding** - Multi-story pathfinding not yet implemented
- ⚠️ **Rendering Issues** - Some rendering artifacts on complex structures

#### **Event System**
- ⚠️ **Performance** - High-frequency events may impact performance
- ⚠️ **Memory Leaks** - Event listener cleanup needs improvement

### **Platform Limitations**

| Platform | GPU Acceleration | Multi-Story | Event System |
|----------|------------------|-------------|--------------|
| **Windows** | ✅ Full | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| **macOS** | ⚠️ Limited | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| **Linux** | ✅ Full | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| **Web** | ❌ Not Supported | ⚠️ Limited | ✅ Full |
| **Mobile** | ❌ Not Supported | ⚠️ Limited | ✅ Full |

---

## 📅 Release Timeline

### **Development Schedule**

| Milestone | Target Date | Status |
|-----------|-------------|--------|
| **Alpha 1** | December 15, 2025 | 🚧 In Progress |
| **Alpha 2** | January 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |
| **Beta 1** | February 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |
| **Beta 2** | March 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |
| **Release Candidate** | April 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |
| **Final Release** | May 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |

### **Feature Freeze Dates**

- **API Freeze**: March 1, 2026
- **Feature Freeze**: March 15, 2026
- **String Freeze**: April 1, 2026
- **Code Freeze**: April 15, 2026

---

## 🤝 Contributing to Development

### **How to Contribute**

1. **Set Up Development Environment**
   ```bash
   git clone -b develop https://github.com/ChrisTutorials/grid_building_dev.git
   cd grid_building_dev
   godot --headless --script tests/run_all_tests.gd
   ```

2. **Run Tests**
   ```bash
   # Run all tests
   godot --headless --script tests/run_all_tests.gd
   
   # Run specific test category
   godot --headless --script tests/run_gpu_tests.gd
   ```

3. **Submit Changes**
   - Create feature branch from `develop`
   - Add tests for new features
   - Ensure all tests pass
   - Submit pull request

### **Development Guidelines**

- **Code Style** - Follow GDScript style guide
- **Testing** - Add tests for all new features
- **Documentation** - Update documentation for API changes
- **Performance** - Profile and optimize critical paths
- **Compatibility** - Maintain backward compatibility where possible

---

## 📋 Feedback & Bug Reports

### **Reporting Issues**

When reporting issues with the development version, please include:

1. **Godot Version** - 4.4, 4.5, etc.
2. **Platform** - Windows, macOS, Linux, etc.
2. **Grid Size** - For performance-related issues
3. **Reproduction Steps** - Clear steps to reproduce
4. **Expected vs Actual** - What should happen vs what happens
5. **Error Messages** - Any error messages or stack traces

### **Feature Requests**

For feature requests, please include:

1. **Use Case** - Why you need this feature
2. **Proposed API** - How you'd like it to work
3. **Alternatives** - Any alternative solutions considered
4. **Priority** - How important this is to you

---

## 🔄 Migration from v5.0

### **Preparation Steps**

1. **Backup Your Project**
   ```bash
   cp -r your_project your_project_backup
   ```

2. **Review Breaking Changes**
   - Check [Breaking Changes](/v5.1/migration/breaking-changes/)
   - Review [Migration Guide](/v5.1/migration/5-1-0/)

3. **Test in Isolation**
   - Create test project with v5.1
   - Migrate small subset first
   - Verify functionality

### **Migration Process**

1. **Update Dependencies**
   ```gdscript
   # Update plugin version
   # Update configuration for new features
   ```

2. **Update Code**
   ```gdscript
   # Migrate to new APIs
   # Update event handlers
   # Add GPU acceleration if desired
   ```

3. **Test Thoroughly**
   ```gdscript
   # Run full test suite
   # Test performance improvements
   # Verify all functionality
   ```

---

## 📚 Development Documentation

### **API Documentation**
- [Core API](/v5.1/api/core/)
- [GPU Acceleration](/v5.1/api/gpu/)
- [Event System](/v5.1/api/events/)
- [Multi-Story Buildings](/v5.1/api/multi-story/)

### **Guides**
- [GPU Acceleration Guide](/v5.1/guides/gpu-acceleration/)
- [Event System Guide](/v5.1/guides/event-system/)
- [Multi-Story Buildings](/v5.1/guides/multi-story/)
- [Performance Optimization](/v5.1/guides/performance/)

### **Migration**
- [v5.0 to v5.1 Migration](/v5.1/migration/5-1-0/)
- [Breaking Changes](/v5.1/migration/breaking-changes/)
- [Compatibility Notes](/v5.1/migration/compatibility-notes/)

---

*This is the development version. For the stable release, see [v5.0 (Stable)](/v5.0/).*

Commit message:

docs: sync GridBuilding documentation and site output

grid_building/content/v5.1/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Grid Building Plugin v5.1.0"
description: "Development version with latest features and improvements"
---



> **Status:** The v5.1 documentation line has been folded into the v6.0 C#-first release.
>
> The planned 5.1 feature set became too complex to ship as a separate minor version, and the C# language migration justified rolling that work directly into the v6.0 docs.
> For current, maintained documentation, please use the v6.0 section instead.

_This v5.1 section is legacy and may be removed in a future cleanup once v6.0 is fully stabilized._

# Grid Building Plugin v5.1.0 (Development)

{{< version-notice status="development" version="5.1.0" text="This is the development version. Features may change before final release." >}}

Welcome to the **Grid Building Plugin v5.1.0** development documentation. This version contains the latest features and improvements that are currently in active development.

{{< version-requirements minVersion="4.4" recommended="4.5" pluginVersion="5.1.0-dev" note="v5.1.0 is under development and may contain breaking changes" >}}

## 🚀 What's Coming in v5.1.0

### ✨ **New Features in Development**

#### **Enhanced Performance System**
- **GPU-Accelerated Grid Operations** - Leverage compute shaders for massive grids
- **Async Building Operations** - Non-blocking building placement
- **Memory Pool Management** - Advanced memory optimization
- **Spatial Indexing** - Quadtree-based spatial queries

#### **Advanced Building System**
- **Multi-Story Buildings** - Support for vertical building
- **Building Templates** - Reusable building configurations
- **Dynamic Building Systems** - Runtime building generation
- **Building Dependencies** - Buildings that depend on other buildings

#### **Improved User Experience**
- **Visual Building Editor** - In-game building designer
- **Building Preview System** - Real-time placement preview
- **Undo/Redo System** - Complete action history
- **Building Snap System** - Smart grid snapping

#### **Enhanced API**
- **Fluent API Design** - Method chaining and builder patterns
- **Event System** - Reactive programming support
- **Plugin Architecture** - Extensible plugin system
- **Scriptable Building Types** - Custom building type definitions

### 🔄 **Planned Breaking Changes**

| Change | Status | Impact |
|--------|--------|--------|
| **GPU Acceleration API** | In Development | High |
| **Event System Integration** | Planned | Medium |
| **Plugin Architecture** | In Development | Medium |
| **Multi-Story Support** | Planned | Low |

---

## 🎯 Development Roadmap

### **Phase 1: Performance Enhancements** ✅ Complete
- [x] GPU acceleration framework
- [x] Async operation system
- [x] Memory pool management
- [x] Spatial indexing improvements

### **Phase 2: Advanced Building Features** 🚧 In Progress
- [ ] Multi-story building system
- [ ] Building template system
- [ ] Dynamic building generation
- [ ] Building dependency management

### **Phase 3: User Experience** 📋 Planned
- [ ] Visual building editor
- [ ] Building preview system
- [ ] Undo/redo implementation
- [ ] Smart snapping system

### **Phase 4: API Improvements** 📋 Planned
- [ ] Fluent API design
- [ ] Event system integration
- [ ] Plugin architecture
- [ ] Scriptable building types

---

## 📊 Performance Benchmarks (Development)

### **Current Development Performance**

| Operation | v5.0 Performance | v5.1-dev Performance | Improvement |
|-----------|------------------|---------------------|-------------|
| **Grid Creation** | 18ms | 8ms | **55% faster** [internal benchmarks] |
| **Tile Selection** | 5ms | 2ms | **60% faster** [internal benchmarks] |
| **Building Placement** | 3ms | 1ms | **67% faster** [internal benchmarks] |
| **Large Grid (1000x1000)** | 450ms | 120ms | **73% faster** [internal benchmarks] |
| **Memory Usage** | 28MB | 18MB | **36% reduction** |

*Performance improvements based on internal benchmarks. Actual results may vary by use case.*

### **GPU Acceleration Results**

| Grid Size | CPU Time | GPU Time | Speedup |
|-----------|----------|----------|---------|
| **500x500** | 120ms | 15ms | **8x faster** [GPU benchmarks] |
| **1000x1000** | 450ms | 35ms | **13x faster** [GPU benchmarks] |
| **2000x2000** | 1800ms | 80ms | **22x faster** [GPU benchmarks] |

*GPU acceleration results from internal testing with specific hardware configurations.*

---

## 🔧 New API Examples

### **Fluent API Design**
```gdscript
# v5.1 fluent API
var result = building_system
    .with_config(grid_config)
    .with_position(Vector2i(50, 50))
    .with_size(Vector2i(2, 2))
    .with_type(BuildType.DRAG)
    .with_validation_rules([no_overlap_rule, terrain_rule])
    .place_building()

if result.success:
    var building = result.building
    building
        .with_material("stone")
        .with_color(Color.BLUE)
        .with_health(100)
        .apply()
```

### **Event System**
```gdscript
# v5.1 event system
building_system.building_placed.connect(func(data: GBBuildingData):
    print("Building placed at: ", data.position)
    update_ui()

building_system.building_removed.connect(func(data: GBBuildingData):
    print("Building removed from: ", data.position)
    update_ui()
)
```

### **GPU Acceleration**
```gdscript
# v5.1 GPU acceleration
var gpu_processor = GPUGridProcessor.new()
gpu_processor.enable_acceleration(true)

# Process large grid on GPU
var results = await gpu_processor.find_valid_tiles(
    grid_data, 
    building_template, 
    area_bounds
)
```

### **Multi-Story Buildings**
```gdscript
# v5.1 multi-story support
var multi_story = MultiStoryBuilding.new()
multi_story
    .add_floor(0, floor_plan_1)
    .add_floor(1, floor_plan_2)
    .add_floor(2, floor_plan_3)
    .with_stairs(stair_positions)
    .place_at(Vector3i(50, 0, 50))
```

---

## 🧪 Testing the Development Version

### **Installation Instructions**

1. **Download Development Version**
   ```bash
   # Clone development branch
   git clone -b develop https://github.com/ChrisTutorials/grid_building_dev.git
   ```

2. **Install in Godot**
   - Copy to your project's `addons/` directory
   - Enable in Project Settings

3. **Configure for Development**
   ```gdscript
   # Enable development features
   @export var config: GBConfig = GBConfig.new()
   config.enable_gpu_acceleration = true
   config.enable_async_operations = true
   config.enable_development_features = true
   ```

### **Testing New Features**

#### **GPU Acceleration Test**
```gdscript
func test_gpu_acceleration():
    var gpu_processor = GPUGridProcessor.new()
    
    # Test with large grid
    var grid_size = Vector2i(1000, 1000)
    var test_data = generate_test_grid(grid_size)
    
    # CPU vs GPU comparison
    var cpu_time = Time.get_ticks_msec()
    var cpu_result = cpu_processor.process_grid(test_data)
    cpu_time = Time.get_ticks_msec() - cpu_time
    
    var gpu_time = Time.get_ticks_msec()
    var gpu_result = await gpu_processor.process_grid_gpu(test_data)
    gpu_time = Time.get_ticks_msec() - gpu_time
    
    print("CPU: ", cpu_time, "ms, GPU: ", gpu_time, "ms")
    print("Speedup: ", float(cpu_time) / float(gpu_time), "x")
```

#### **Event System Test**
```gdscript
func test_event_system():
    var event_count = 0
    
    building_system.building_placed.connect(func(data):
        event_count += 1
        print("Event ", event_count, ": Building at ", data.position)
    
    # Place buildings and count events
    for i in range(10):
        place_test_building(Vector2i(i, i))
    
    assert(event_count == 10, "Should receive 10 events")
```

---

## 🐛 Known Issues & Limitations

### **Current Development Issues**

#### **GPU Acceleration**
- ⚠️ **Limited Platform Support** - Currently only supports desktop platforms
- ⚠️ **Memory Constraints** - Very large grids may exceed GPU memory
- ⚠️ **Shader Compilation** - Initial shader compilation may cause lag

#### **Multi-Story Buildings**
- ⚠️ **Collision Detection** - Multi-story collision detection in development
- ⚠️ **Pathfinding** - Multi-story pathfinding not yet implemented
- ⚠️ **Rendering Issues** - Some rendering artifacts on complex structures

#### **Event System**
- ⚠️ **Performance** - High-frequency events may impact performance
- ⚠️ **Memory Leaks** - Event listener cleanup needs improvement

### **Platform Limitations**

| Platform | GPU Acceleration | Multi-Story | Event System |
|----------|------------------|-------------|--------------|
| **Windows** | ✅ Full | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| **macOS** | ⚠️ Limited | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| **Linux** | ✅ Full | ✅ Full | ✅ Full |
| **Web** | ❌ Not Supported | ⚠️ Limited | ✅ Full |
| **Mobile** | ❌ Not Supported | ⚠️ Limited | ✅ Full |

---

## 📅 Release Timeline

### **Development Schedule**

| Milestone | Target Date | Status |
|-----------|-------------|--------|
| **Alpha 1** | December 15, 2025 | 🚧 In Progress |
| **Alpha 2** | January 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |
| **Beta 1** | February 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |
| **Beta 2** | March 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |
| **Release Candidate** | April 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |
| **Final Release** | May 15, 2026 | 📋 Planned |

### **Feature Freeze Dates**

- **API Freeze**: March 1, 2026
- **Feature Freeze**: March 15, 2026
- **String Freeze**: April 1, 2026
- **Code Freeze**: April 15, 2026

---

## 🤝 Contributing to Development

### **How to Contribute**

1. **Set Up Development Environment**
   ```bash
   git clone -b develop https://github.com/ChrisTutorials/grid_building_dev.git
   cd grid_building_dev
   godot --headless --script tests/run_all_tests.gd
   ```

2. **Run Tests**
   ```bash
   # Run all tests
   godot --headless --script tests/run_all_tests.gd
   
   # Run specific test category
   godot --headless --script tests/run_gpu_tests.gd
   ```

3. **Submit Changes**
   - Create feature branch from `develop`
   - Add tests for new features
   - Ensure all tests pass
   - Submit pull request

### **Development Guidelines**

- **Code Style** - Follow GDScript style guide
- **Testing** - Add tests for all new features
- **Documentation** - Update documentation for API changes
- **Performance** - Profile and optimize critical paths
- **Compatibility** - Maintain backward compatibility where possible

---

## 📋 Feedback & Bug Reports

### **Reporting Issues**

When reporting issues with the development version, please include:

1. **Godot Version** - 4.4, 4.5, etc.
2. **Platform** - Windows, macOS, Linux, etc.
2. **Grid Size** - For performance-related issues
3. **Reproduction Steps** - Clear steps to reproduce
4. **Expected vs Actual** - What should happen vs what happens
5. **Error Messages** - Any error messages or stack traces

### **Feature Requests**

For feature requests, please include:

1. **Use Case** - Why you need this feature
2. **Proposed API** - How you'd like it to work
3. **Alternatives** - Any alternative solutions considered
4. **Priority** - How important this is to you

---

## 🔄 Migration from v5.0

### **Preparation Steps**

1. **Backup Your Project**
   ```bash
   cp -r your_project your_project_backup
   ```

2. **Review Breaking Changes**
   - Check [Breaking Changes](/v5.1/migration/breaking-changes/)
   - Review [Migration Guide](/v5.1/migration/5-1-0/)

3. **Test in Isolation**
   - Create test project with v5.1
   - Migrate small subset first
   - Verify functionality

### **Migration Process**

1. **Update Dependencies**
   ```gdscript
   # Update plugin version
   # Update configuration for new features
   ```

2. **Update Code**
   ```gdscript
   # Migrate to new APIs
   # Update event handlers
   # Add GPU acceleration if desired
   ```

3. **Test Thoroughly**
   ```gdscript
   # Run full test suite
   # Test performance improvements
   # Verify all functionality
   ```

---

## 📚 Development Documentation

### **API Documentation**
- [Core API](/v5.1/api/core/)
- [GPU Acceleration](/v5.1/api/gpu/)
- [Event System](/v5.1/api/events/)
- [Multi-Story Buildings](/v5.1/api/multi-story/)

### **Guides**
- [GPU Acceleration Guide](/v5.1/guides/gpu-acceleration/)
- [Event System Guide](/v5.1/guides/event-system/)
- [Multi-Story Buildings](/v5.1/guides/multi-story/)
- [Performance Optimization](/v5.1/guides/performance/)

### **Migration**
- [v5.0 to v5.1 Migration](/v5.1/migration/5-1-0/)
- [Breaking Changes](/v5.1/migration/breaking-changes/)
- [Compatibility Notes](/v5.1/migration/compatibility-notes/)

---

*This is the development version. For the stable release, see [v5.0 (Stable)](/v5.0/).*
